# Kickoff: Public Cloud z/OS enablement working group


## Attendees:



*   Kip Twitchell
*   Matt Hogstrom
*   Sean Grady
*   Ed Jaffe
*   Harry Williams
*   David Edelsohn
*   Jason Smith
*   Joe Bostian
*   Randall Ness
*   Sandy Peresie
*   Yongkook Kim (Alex) 
*   Mark Ackert
*   Bruce Armstrong
*   Marcel Mitran
*   Peter Fandell
*   Yvette LaMar
*   Len Santalucia


## Action Items:

Survey to OMP communities on what kind of delivery mechanism would be most relevant: 

Clarify vision of our end game so we can ensure that we’re accomplishing achievable goals: **All**

Continuing Session on a predefined basis: **semi-monthly - Kip, starting on January 7th to avoid a conflict on the TAC**

Create a github instance as a project - **Dependent on name**

Setup meetings: **Kip to work with John.**

Pick a name:  send out a list of options and get a survey monkey.  - **Hogstrom**



*   Unicorn
*   Rarity

Architecture of ZD&T with software license servers: - **Jason**


## Notes:

Challenges for z/OS access to those that do not have access to z/OS.  

**Kip:** It is an ecosystem play but z/OS is more difficult to gain access.  Access to a broader software stack is important.  Wants to take a broad look at the broader community beyond emulators to bare metal, virtualized, etc.

This is not an easy problem to solve.

**Alex**: For those that are using zPDT can they comment on the use and problems with ZD&T.

**Kip**: Hardware key is an issue and the installation of z/OS.  His team didn’t have a datacenter and the installation to share with others.  Perhaps documentation and best practices would make it easier to get up and running.

Options: 

Raspberry Pi

x86 Emulator ZPDT

Bare Metal

Virtualized like z/VM

**Jason:** ZD&T experiences have been on creating ZD&T instances that are customized so that all users do not have to start from scratch.  The major drawback has been zIIP processing in Java that found that ZD&T instances.

**Kip**: Could we create communities through insights and best practices.

**Matt:**  Using z/VM for Zowe we have three different stacks varying the ISV software for the ESMs (RACF, ACF2, TSS) and the time to stand them up is a challenge and has long lead times.  This depends on the persona and goal.

**Kip**: If we could make instances available that would be easily available.  

**Matt:** There are a number of personas (infrastructure versus middleware versus application) is there a priority persona we should be focusing on.

**Kip**: Perhaps a survey to get more information from the communities to prioritize what to focus on.

**Ed**: Recently saw a demo where Meredith Stowell shared the ability to provision entire subsystems quickly.  

**Alex: **Thinks this was shown as ZD&T as Code Ready workspaces to provision quickly for developers.

**Jason**: There are projects in a number of organizations to try and solve this same problem.  How to do development more quickly.   Referred to the Unicorn problem where he can automate the creation of the unicorns.

**Bruce**: Questionnaire to Zowe community for barriers to participation.
